# Slock - a decentralized future for the emerging sharing economy

Since this is the first blog post, I would like to describe the vision we have for Slock.
With Uber, AirBnb and others leading the sharing economy, we have to ask ourself if that is the way we want it.
Monopolistic companies that take extraordinary fees and take full control of the market. I admit, I use them, but I would prefer to 
have a system that would allow me to make a deal directly with the owner without any third party.
But without the intermediary, I don't know whether I can trust the other party. Also who handles a secure money transfer? How do we hand-over keys? (I have used AirBnb in NYC with the key under the door mat)
How do owner and renters find each other?

Those problems can be solved by using smart contracts on a blockchain. Slock uses Ethereum (ethereum.org) for that. A blockchain is a decentralized cryptographicaly secured database, which allows anyone in the world to access it 
and send transactions to it, thereby changing its state.
There is no central party in control of it. Ethereum uses this technique and expands it with the concept of self enforcing smart contracts. Slock uses this (https://github.com/slockit/smart-contract/blob/master/contract.sol) contract. User interact with each other through that contract, and because of the rules in the Ethereum protocol, this contract will always excactly do what is programmed to do and can not be cheated. I will write another post covering the details of that contract.
So we as the creators of Slock do not need to run servers, or handle transactions for you. We don't need to transfer money or managing hand-over of keys. All of this will be handled by the blockchain, an open database which can be explored by everyone.

When you purchase a slock, it will be connected to the mentioned smart contract in the blockchain and controlled by it. A owner of a slock can set a deposit and a price for renting his property. And a user will pay that deposit through a transaction to the ethereum blockchain (without us), thereby getting the permission to open and close that smart lock through his smart phone. The deposit will be locked in the blockchain until the user decides to return the virtual key by again sending a transaction to the ethereum blockchain. This will automatically enfore the contract to send the deposit substracted by the price for the rental to the user and the rest to the owner. All of this happens without any interference of a third party (including us).

Since the data about a slock is public in the blockchain, any webservice can scan it and offer matchmaking. The current model of giving all power to one company, because this company has all the data, will be broken. The data will now be pulic for any blockchain explorer to use.

We will offer hardware and software to make use of this system and hope that many will build upon this standard.
Imagine the possibility to rent out your flat, house, bike, car, washing machine, lawn mower, ... just by locking it with a Slock. Thats all you need to do for letting other people use it securly. Contract enforcment and payment will all be handled automaticaly. And the best thing, you dont even need to trust us, because we won't do all of those things for you.




